-(screaming)
-* Bad boys *
-* Whatcha want,
whatcha want *
* Whatcha gonna do *
-* When the Sheriff John Brown
come for you? *
-Stop! Now! Stop!
-(clattering)
-Heads up!
-* Bad boys, bad boys,
watcha gonna do... *
I smoked some marijuana!
I'm a marijuana smoker!
-* Bad boys, bad boys *
-Crawl out!
* Whatcha gonna do... *
-Hands up! Hands up!
Hold it! Hold it!
-Announcer:
"Cops" is filmed on location
with the men and women
of law enforcement.
All suspects are innocent
until proven guilty
in a court of law.
-Part of the things
that we work on here
in law enforcement is narcotics.
We see that in almost
every facet of what we do.
There's drugs and burglaries,
drugs and home invasion,
drugs involved in just about
every crime that occurs here.
One of the things we
constantly are trying to do
is help children stay off drugs.
And that's what we work hard
towards is teaching these youths
that the drugs will actually
make them do things
that they wouldn't normally do,
and it ultimately
will cost them their freedoms.
It looks like there's
a quad down here.
We're gonna turn around down
here and see what it's up to.
-(engine revs)
-Looks like he's trying
to get away from us.
-Ops One.
-(over radio): Ops One.
-Got a four-wheeler here,
duckin' out on us,
headed out
into the desert, westbound.
-(siren blaring)
-In pursuit.
Comstock from Bourbon.
So we're in pursuit of a quad,
took off on us, uh, back there.
-(siren blaring)
-(over radio): Ops One, copy.
(quad revving)
-Southbound from Comstock,
south on Blagg.
-(over radio): Southbound
from Comstock, south on Blagg.
-(siren blaring)
(quad revving)
-Comstock Circle.
Looks like he wrecked
off Comstock.
-(over radio): Stop.
Comstock Circle South.
-Let me see your hands!
Put your hands up now!
Put your hands in the air!
Both of them in the air!
Ops One, one at gunpoint,
not cooperative.
Put your hands in the air,
both of them!
Keep 'em over your head!
Your hands over your head now!
Not cooperative.
Put your hands over your head!
Keep them over your head!
-(over radio): Where is he at?
-Don't move!
-(over radio): South 14,
he's on Comstock Circle.
-Keep 'em up!
Put 'em over your head now!
-(grumbles)
-Keep them over your head!
-My ribs are broke.
-I don't care, put 'em
on the back of your head now!
Leave 'em on the back
of your head!
-What's that?
-My legs are broke.
-Put 'em on your head!
-Keep your hands up!
-My legs are broke.
-I will get you an ambulance.
Keep your hands up!
Put 'em on the back
of your head!
-I'm trying to,
my leg is broke.
-I will get you
an ambulance.
-(groans)
Both my legs are broke.
(groaning)
-(groaning)
-Stop!
-(over radio):
Ops One, status?
-I'm not doin' nothin'.
-Put your hands
behind your back!
-You're a (bleep).
-I am?
-My-- My-- My leg is broke.
-Well, I'm gonna
get you an ambulance.
Code four, one in custody.
Send me an ambulance.
-(groans)
Oh my God, it's broke.
-(over radio): Ops One,
what's your exact location?
-(groans)
-In the desert, off of Blagg
and Comstock.
Juan, how many years
has this been goin' on with you?
I thought you'd learned better.
-My leg is broke.
-I know, I've got an
ambulance comin' from ya.
-Yeah, but you
didn't care about me--
-Do you have dope on you?
-No, I don't.
-How many times do we have
to go through this with you?
Why are you runnin'?
-I'm not runnin' from nothin'.
-Why didn't you stop for me?
-For-- What?
-When did I have
to stop for you?
-When I'm behind you
with my lights and sirens on.
-Your lights and sirens...
-What?
-(groans) My leg is broke.
-I've got an ambulance
comin' for ya.
-(groaning)
-You have been doing this
for far too many years with us.
-(groans)
-All right?
Far too many.
You're just gonna hang out
until the ambulance gets here.
Okay?
-Okay, can you get
the backpack off of me?
No, not right now.
-You know you can.
-I can't, it's
behind your handcuffs.
-Come on, man,
like, where the hell
am I gonna run to?
-You just demonstrated
where you're gonna run to.
Absolutely anywhere you can
other than with us.
And, man, that's the least
of your worries right now.
-I ain't got no worries.
I will be bailed out
by the morning.
You can bail out,
you're not even in jail yet.
Ready? (indistinct)
One, two, three.
Good.
(panting)
Why don't you... run that?
And see if it's, uh, stolen.
Where'd you get the quad?
-I've had that quad
for five years.
-It's yours?
-Yeah, it's mine.
-(horn honks)
-Hey, medics are here, man.
We'll get her in
and get you right, all right?
-Watch him for a sec, Auggie.
-I think he's got
a broken leg.
I haven't moved him.
He's asking me
to relieve the pressure.
-What'd he do,
run from you?
-Yeah.
He wrecked, just tumbled
this way, and he's complaining
of extreme pressure and pain.
-All right, we'll take look.
We're gonna have to
get you outta here, though.
-Roll up and sit on your butt.
-(groaning)
-We're gonna try
to stand you up, all right?
-I cannot stand up.
-No?
-You're gonna have to stand,
sir, okay?
There's no way
to get you out of here.
-He said it's his left leg
that has the injury.
-My left--
-All right.
-(groaning) Ow!
Hey! What the--
-We're pressin' on it.
We gotta make sure
where it's at.
-(groaning)
-We gotta make sure
nothing's pokin' out, all right?
-Oh, oh my God.
-Stand up!
-Ow! Come on! (groans)
-Ready?
All right.
-Uh, we're pretty familiar
with him.
He's regularly, uh,
causing problems
for the community.
He never wants
to get caught by the police,
and so he always runs.
Obviously, the four-wheeler
is the preferred method
to get away from us,
'cause they can get
into the dirt.
-(groaning)
-Start gettin' aggressive,
give us a hard time,
and we'll keep you
out of the ambulance.
-I've got my shoes on.
-Okay. Well, just be cool
and we'll be cool,
that's all that counts.
-Move the other foot, please.
Move the other foot.
-That's what's... (groans)
-There you go.
-So there was one point
back there,
I cut the corner after him
into the desert.
It looks like, uh,
I probably hit the, uh,
bottom of the radiator.
It looks like I'm leakin'
some radiator fluid,
so we'll limp it
back to the garage
and let the mechanics
take a look at it
first thing in the morning.
I'm pretty sure
it was his intention
to come in through here
and losing me
through this terrain,
but he was goin'
a little too fast.
Um...
-He's obviously in custody?
-Yes.
He's in custody.
-All right.
-So you'll follow him
to the hospital.
I'll have Max do a draw
on him.
And then I'll go
limp my car
back to the garage.
-All right.
So, the four-wheelers
are constantly used
for running drugs
in and out
of this community
because it makes it difficult
for us to find
and capture them.
Often, when we apprehend them,
they have narcotics.
That's why they're running.
Uh, and they're usin'
the four-wheelers
as an easy means
of getting away from us,
because they can
get through terrain
that our vehicles can't.
Pretty normal for them
to try that, and at the end,
this didn't work out
for him so well.
-So I was born and raised
here in Fort Myers.
Been here 28 years.
The only time I left
was when I joined
the Marine Corps.
During that time,
I developed the interest
to join the Sheriff's Office.
Always wanted to have a job
that, I looked forward
to going to every single day.
All right, we're just
going over to Zelda Park
real quick, do an area check.
It's known to have people there
smokin' dope, so we'll see
what's goin' on.
There's just two individuals
sitting in their car, so--
Hello, how are you doin'?
This is a county park,
it's closed after dark.
Do you have ID on you?
-Oh my God.
-(radio chatter)
-We're at Zelda Park
with a white vehicle.
Stand by for the tag.
It's occupied times two.
Thanks, ma'am.
Nothin' illegal in the car?
No drugs? No guns?
Can I look when I'm done
with the, uh,
the stop here?
-Yeah.
-Okay.
Hey, Candace, you wanna
pull 'em out?
You guys live out here
in Lehigh?
-Yes.
-Oh, okay.
Are you guys dating?
-No.
-Hey, ma'am,
you can hop out now.
-Okay.
-Appreciate it.
You don't have anything
on you, right?
No guns, nothin' like that?
-No, I don't have anything.
-Just your name tag, right?
-Yeah, my name tag.
-Okay. Come on over here.
Just stand back here,
I'm gonna have her
just pat you down for weapons,
and then we'll--
You guys'll just hang out here.
-Okay.
She left her purse in here.
I'm free to look through it.
Um, when they consent
to search, that includes
everything inside the car.
I smelled the odor
of marijuana, like that.
So right now, all I have
is this little marijuana roach.
Uh, if it's just that
we'll probably document
that they had drug
paraphernalia and then,
um, let them go.
They-- Neither of them
have any records
as of right now,
and it gives them
a positive outlook
on law enforcement.
Um, we'll see
if there's anything else.
I'm over here
on the passenger side now.
I'm gonna start
with this backpack.
We'll look through the bag,
make sure there's nothin'
illegal in the bag.
Okay. Um, there's a handgun.
Got a Ruger handgun
here, LCP. It's probably gonna
be a .22 or a 9 mil.
So we're gonna run it
and make sure it's not stolen,
and then we'll go from there.
So, we'll see here
in just a minute, make sure
it's clear.
And it is.
Nothin' in the chamber.
Let's go talk to 'em
and find out what's goin' on.
Hey, Sofia?
You guys have been
very cooperative with me
and I appreciate that.
I know you're in handcuffs,
but you're not in the back
of the patrol car yet.
You're not under arrest--
-Yet?
-Yeah. Well, I got
some questions about
what's goin' on in the car.
Okay?
Do you understand?
I come to a park
that's closed after dark, okay?
-Yes.
-I found marijuana
in your purse.
In your clutch
in the car.
And I found a gun
in his bag.
In the car.
Did you know
both of those items
were there?
-No.
-You didn't know
that you had weed
in your clutch?
-I did know that.
-You did know that?
Okay, did you know
he had a gun in his bag?
-No, did not know that.
-Do you know
that he carries a gun?
-No. I just met him
like a month ago.
-You just met-- How do you
know him?
-He goes to my school.
-Are you guys dating?
-No.
-You guys talking?
-Oh, we're just
communicating with each other.
But, we don't have anything--
I just met him, like,
a month ago.
But we're not really
doing anything.
-Okay. Does he sell you--
Does he sell you weed?
-No.
-He doesn't sell weed?
-No. No.
I just wanna know
what's gonna happen
with my parents,
because I wanna get home,
I don't want my parents
to find out about this.
-Well, as of right now,
you're gonna be charged
with possession of marijuana,
and as of right now,
he's gonna be charged
with possession of a firearm.
-How about me?
What do I do?
-I just told you.
-Yeah, but tell me
what I do. Um, is my parents
gonna find out about this?
-They're gonna know
that you went to jail, yeah,
if I end up arresting you.
-Am I gonna go to jail?
Don't arrest me, please,
I've never even had weed
on me before.
This is the first time ever.
-Sofia, I understand
that you're upset,
so what I'm gonna do
is, I'm gonna let you relax
in the back of this car
for a second.
-But I can't, just tell me
what's gonna happen, please.
Oh, wait.
Where's your car at?
-Please, just please
let me know
what's gonna happen.
I'll pay anything.
-How old are you?
-Seventeen.
I'm literally-- never even
carried weed before me
until today.
-Okay, listen to me.
-I don't wanna
go to jail, please.
-I understand you don't want to.
I don't wanna sit here
and keep havin' this--
this same rhetoric
over and over again, okay?
Let me go talk to Ishmael.
-My parents are gonna
call me, and I--
-Sofia, I'm gonna tell you
one more time,
get in this car, so I can
go talk to Ishmael.
-Can someone just stay with me,
'cause I don't wanna be alone.
-Yeah. I mean,
you're not alone. There's
a lot of people
right here, okay?
-Someone needed
to come with me.
-Just sit here
and relax, okay?
-Please?
-Okay, Ishmael.
You think it's gonna be
a stolen gun?
-I don't know.
-You don't know?
-Everything, I found it
in the bushes.
-It was in the bushes? Okay.
How old are you?
-I just turned eighteen.
-You just turned eighteen.
-I'm an athlete, I run track.
-You're an athlete,
you run track?
You got me
in a tough spot, Ishmael.
What I want is I want
the truth.
You know, I found weed
in her purse too, right?
-You got some weed?
-Just a little joint,
but still.
-She said I sold her weed?
-You don't sell weed?
-No, sir.
-Who do you think
sold her that?
You don't know? Okay.
Okay. All right.
Sit tight for a minute.
-(speaking Spanish)
-Because they are my friends.
-Hello, how are you doin',
I'm Deputy Roedding
with the Sheriff's Office.
Long story short,
your daughter could be charged
with possession of marijuana,
okay?
'Cause it's-- it was
in her clutch,
she stated that it was hers.
She said it was her weed.
Um, the male said
that it was her weed.
They're-- She didn't know--
She claims to not have knowledge
about the gun, that he knew
that the gun was there.
He said it's his and stuff, so.
I understand that she
has never been in trouble.
I think we could leave this
to the parents.
She needs to understand
that, this is just the beginning
of, she is obviously...
-(phone chimes)
-getting into the wrong crowd.
-Oh my God, if my husband come,
he gonna kill me.
-(laughs)
-Can I just go home,
I'm gonna take her
and I'm gonna talk to her.
-Yeah. That-- That's--
That's absolutely fine.
Give us just one second.
Thank you, ma'am.
Hey, Sofia?
I'm not here to ruin
your life, okay?
What I'm here to do
is teach you lessons,
so that, when you're 18,
19, 20, you're making
the right decisions,
not the wrong ones, okay?
All right.
-Thank you so much.
-Go home.
-Thank you so much, guys.
-Bye!
-Okay, Ishmael.
Listen, you're gonna be
charged with possession
of a concealed firearm, okay?
What you have in the car tonight
as an 18-year-old boy
is unacceptable.
You have no idea
whose it was,
if it was stolen,
if it's a murder weapon?
What this is
for you is this
is a learning experience.
Every action has a consequence.
-You know, workin'
in Pahrump, you know, people
think it's a sleepy town.
It's actually quite busy,
with Las Vegas
being an hour away,
you know, a lot of people
move out here to get away
from the bright lights
of Las Vegas.
It gets out here
pretty dark.
I've got this car
that just pulled up
to the intersection.
He saw my car
and immediately put it
in reverse
and started backin' up.
So I'm gonna go ahead
and do a traffic stop
on him and see,
see what his issue is.
So we'll pull in here.
-(radio chatter)
-Hey, what's doin', man?
-That was my fault.
I whistled to him I had
to get something out of my car.
-Here's the thing,
you were backin' up
in the wrong way of traffic.
-I'm sorry about that.
He just dropped me off at work.
-Okay. Cool.
-He just dropped me off
a Pepsi, and my straws
are in the car.
-Okay. Cool.
-Sorry about that.
-You mind
steppin' over here for me?
-Yeah.
-Hey, ma'am?
Can you stay over here?
Thank you.
-I'm sorry, what?
-Can you just stay over here
for me?
-Sure.
-Just keep your hands
out of your pockets, brother.
-Sorry.
-Now come right back
over here.
-Okay.
-Right back here.
'Cause you saw how suspicious
it looked, (indistinct)
right there, you look,
you see me,
immediately start backin' up.
-Yeah. Oh, no,
she was whistlin'
from the door right there.
-Okay.
Do you-- Do you have
your license, registration,
proof of insurance with you?
-Yeah. She's got it.
-And do me a favor,
keep your hands
out of your pockets.
-I'm sorry, I gotta
get my license for you.
-That's called littering.
And you hit me with that.
So I'd really appreciate
you not throw your cigarette
and hit me with it.
-I thought I threw it
right in my pocket.
-But you threw it
and hit me with it.
-I'm sorry, sir.
I'm just nervous.
-What are you nervous for?
-Because I'm not used
to gettin' pulled over.
-Because I just made him
get pulled over by a cop.
-I'm gonna put my hands
on the car.
-All right, man.
Hey, James, is there anything
in your car I should know about,
my man?
-It's my car.
-Is there anything
in your car I should know about?
-No, sir.
-Okay. Would you mind
if I look?
-Yeah. I mean, go ahead.
It's not my car, I'm sorry.
-Well, you're drivin' it.
-He just dropped me off
for work.
-So you're--
-I just dropped her off
at work.
-But you're drivin' it,
so that puts you
in possession of it.
So that makes you liable
for anything that's
inside of that vehicle.
-Yeah, okay.
-Is there a reason
to look in my car?
-I'm just askin'.
I'm askin' you.
Hey, I'm just gonna check,
and make sure you don't have
any weapons on you real quick,
-okay?
-Yes, sir.
-Do you have anything
on you?
-No.
-Have you been arrested
before?
-Mm, yeah.
-What for?
-Um, last time, speedin',
and, um--
-For speedin'?
What's in your pocket
right here, brother?
-My money and my lighter.
-Don't-- Okay, you mind
if I go ahead and pull it out?
-Why are you
treatin' him so bad?
-I'm not treatin' him bad.
-What's this
right here, brother?
Whoa, no, don't grab it.
-It's probably a pipe.
-You mind if I go and--
and grab it out of there, okay?
-Yeah.
-Go ahead and take it.
-Oh, my.
-Oh, no. Dave's pipe. I'm sorry.
-Okay, do you have any other
methamphetamines in the car?
Stop.
-Go ahead, I know
I'm gettin' arrested.
-You got anything else
on you, brother?
-No.
-Where's your meth at?
-That's my friend's pipe,
I got it out of his truck.
-Let me guess,
those are your friend's
pants, too.
-No, these are my pants.
-(radio chatter)
-Um, code four, I just
need assistance of your partner.
-I don't have any money.
-(radio chatter)
-All right, just, uh--
go ahead and put your hands
right here
on my dashboard, okay?
What's up, brother,
how you doin'?
-What's goin' on?
-Hey, um, so,
I'm comin' down,
comin' down 372.
He's right here
at the, um, stop light.
He sees my car,
throws it in reverse,
and immediately
starts backin' back up
the road.
So I shoot here, pull him over.
Ask him to search his car,
which he gives me,
Um, he's got a pipe
in his pocket, you know,
to use meth.
-Do you mind
if we search your car?
-I don't care. Search my car.
-Okay, cool.
Again, you're-- you're
super shaky.
-Yeah, well, I'm freezin' too.
-Okay.
You said you're goin' to jail.
-Because I know-- I know
you have that on me.
-Right.
So do you have
any other meth on you?
-No, I don't.
-Is there anything
in the car?
-No.
-Okay. I want you to walk
right over here on this side
and just leave that right there,
that's gonna go nowhere.
Cell 16, consent search.
-So how long you been
usin' meth?
-Well, I just barely started.
To be honest with you, again
about a month ago.
So embarrassed,
in front of my little sister,
you know how that is.
I'm her big brother and all,
I'm supposed to not be
doin' that.
-Oh.
-(radio chatter)
-John, we got meth.
-Those are doggie treats.
-So the dog would be interested
in that instead of that source.
-So why'd you lie?
-I didn't, I-- that's
my friend's cig--
pack of cigarettes,
sir, to be honest with you.
My friend Dave.
-So you didn't know the meth--
-I didn't know there was
no meth in the car at all.
My cigarettes are Newports,
I just bought 'em.
I smoke Newports.
-You gotta kick the habit,
it's gonna kill you.
-This is it, you just helped
me do it just now.
-You gotta kick it.
-You just did it for me,
just now.
It's so embarrassing for me.
I'm so embarrassed.
-Yeah, cool.
Have a seat right here
in my car, all right?
Watch your head.
-You gonna
take these handcuffs off?
-In a minute, when another
deputy gets here, okay?
All right, my man,
so, you're goin' to jail
for possession
of a controlled substance,
and the possession
of drug paraphernalia,
all right?
-Yes, sir.
-And the unsafe backing.
(chuckles)
All right?
So, I guess it was kind
of a bad time
when you-- when you decided
to, you know, back up
and floor it down the highway.
All right?
-I'm sorry I did that, too,
but, my sister whistled,
you know, I looked--
-I got you.
All right, man.
I understand the situation,
but, you know, it--
unfortunately, it's one
of those things,
it is what it is.
-All right.
-All right?
-Yes, sir.
-So, your brother's
going to jail, you know,
for a felony offense.
-He--
-He's an old man.
-But-- He's an old man that--
-You gotta help him
get clean, though, you know?
Help him get clean,
help him change his life
to b-- He said he didn't
do meth for four years,
-No, he didn't.
-and now he just,
bam, all of a sudden?
You gotta get him--
help him get clean, you know?
-He started hangin' around--
I know why.
-A bad crowd?
-Yep. No, it's just
one person.
-Keep-- Yeah, get him
in church, get him
in sports, somethin',
I don't know, s--
badminton. Chess.
-Chess.
-That's what I told him,
I go, "Bro--
-That makes me suicidal,
playin' chess.
-(laughing)
-I said, "Brother, you gotta
quit or you're gonna die,
man," and we don't want
anybody to die.
-He's all I got.
When he dies, I'm--
that's it.
-You gotta pound that
in his head, put that
in his head, seriously.
-I think we're good,
so you can have a good night,
and go back to work,
and hopefully
you make some money.
-Oh, yeah.
-All right.
-A whole lot.
I had six figures a year
at Starlight Video.
-Oh.
-Bye.
-Found that pipe in his pocket.
As soon as it came out,
he looked at her
and said, "Call Paul.
I'm goin' to jail."
(laughs)
He got super nervous,
and it was like,
all right,
there's-- there's
more of this,
and you know,
where there's a pipe,
there's meth.
-132 and Bush, I've got him
at gunpoint.
-Dispatcher:
Okay, gunpoint, 132 and Bush.
Cover is code three.
-(overlapping
police radio chatter)
-Dispatcher:
Okay, we'll still send
a code three.
-(theme music playing)